### Why we all need Decentralised Governance

Governance is a term often thrown around in cryptocurrency projects, each one
claiming to be new and exciting. However, one project seems to have finally come
up with a governance proposal that really does stand out.

The project in question, algorand, has already produced various new and seminal
technologies in the blockchain space. Their project alone is deserving of
multiple articles, however, today we will look at their newer community
proposal:

**Decentralizing Algorand Governance**

This proposal is the brainchild of both Silvio Micali, founder of algorand, as
well as the [Algorand governance
discussions](https://forum.algorand.org/t/about-the-governance-category/2249).
This project is once again demonstrating incredible ability to listen to their
community, a vital skill of cryptocurrency project’s that is often ignored. The
proposal is based on these discussions as well as [Silvio’s original
proposal](https://www.algorand.com/resources/blog/decentralizing-algorand-governance-nov2020)
titled:

“A proposal for Decentralising Algorand Governance”

The original proposal aimed to decentralise Algorand’s governance by providing
incentives and guarantees to ensure that the protocol would be: “decentralized,
secure, and efficient”

These are undeniably important traits of a decentralised protocol, especially a
governance one. One may question if achieving these properties is truly
feasible; there is no doubt as to the magnitude of such a task. However, once
again the Algorand team is breaking boundaries and innovating on a whole new
level.

The new protocol describes how control over the Algorand Ecosystem Resource
Pool, a collection of 3.2 billion ALGO will be transferred to the community. The
funding is split into 5 main targets: Participation Rewards, Research and
Innovation funds, Algo Grant Program, Research and Social Good Program and
Contingent Incentives.

The control of this new protocol will take place using an on-chain smart
contract. The proposal introduces the concept of “governers”. These are
incentivised actors who will decide how the AERP resources are used and split
among the categories. The goal of this is to support the long term growth of
Algorand and give the community ability to change the project for the better.

The governors will be incentivised via rewards for their participation. Any
algorand account that stakes ALGO for a “3 month governance period” will be
allowed to vote on the decisions. Any person who owns Algorand can and is
encouraged to, join in and become governor. As it is assumed actors with larger
stakes will be incentivised to act in favour of algorand, a governors vote
weight depends on their governance stake; a larger governance stake allows you
to have a larger number of votes.

The governors will be tasked with voting on decisions regarding the AERP. Once
these periodic votes have taken place, the Algorand foundation, the team behind
Algorand will execute these chosen proposals on behalf of the community. As this
aims to give more control to the community of Algorand and empower them to steer
its future the Algorand foundation will not take part in governance votes, nor
receive rewards. Separating the decision making from the execution allows the
community to aid the team in developing Algorand, while still utilising the
team’s vast expertise.

So when is this all happening? The governance system will be deployed in two
separate stages. The first is scheduled to start in late 2021, in the fourth
quarter. In this stage, the main aspect of the governance protocol will be
implemented, some parts of it off-chain. Once this is complete 2 billion ALGO of
the AERP will be locked. These will be controlled by the new system, via the
aforementioned governance protocol.

The second stage focuses on migrating the protocol to an entirely on-chain
system, operating as a smart contract. This is scheduled to be finished by early
2022. After this stage is complete the remaining 1.3 billion ALGO from the AERP
will be transferred to the smart contract. This will mark the start of the
fully-fledged governance protocol. At this point, all AERP governance funds will
be exclusively controlled by the new system. Providing the next step for the
future generation of governance protocols. 

This is a truly exciting development; it marks Algorand’s maturation into a
community guided project. Where other coins let down the community, algorand
upholds them, providing them with a way to guide the project and express their
desires for the coin. Algorand has earned its right to call itself one of the
very few “Comunity Coins”. What an achievement!

#### References: 

1.  [Decentralizing Algorand Governance, Monday 12th April 2021
](https://algorand.foundation/the-algo/algo-governance)
1.  [Algorand governance new proposal: 3.2 billion Algo ecological resource pool
decision-making power transfer to the community,
12/04/21](https://www.theblockbeats.com/en/news/23498)
1.  [Algorand Governance Referendum, June 10th
2021](https://algorand.foundation/news/algorand-governance-referendum)
1.  [The Algorand Governance Program: A More Detailed Exposition, Friday, 21st May
2021](https://algorand.foundation/the-algo/governance-detailed-exposition)
1.  [Algorand Governace FAQ](https://algorand.foundation/gov-faq)

<br> 
